this is like the big let's pray sunday.
But we need that, don't we?
Let's pray. Let's pray.
Not now. We'll do that later.
But, um, yeah. Today though, we have an awesome treat. We have our district superintendent, Reverend Jim Simpson, has agreed to fill in for
in for Pastor Eric while he is out today.
Today anyway, and we'll have some other guy doing it next week, I think. But,
and Christmas Eve. But just, just,
Give him a nice welcome and let's be attentive to the word.
pastor?
You know, I'm not sure that in the forty years that I've been in ministry, I've ever heard awesome treat and welcome the superintendent in the same sentence.
On behalf of Bishop Robert Schnazy, I do wish you a Merry Christmas on behalf of the Bishop and
and within the Heartland District.
There are other 102 churches in the Heartland District that are a part of
our life together. It's good to be with you. We go until what?
One o'clock.
Uh.
Two
All right.
Because it's really hard to...
For me not to start, ah,
Improvising, and I'm going to, you know, particularly after the the voice of the martyrs,
The last church I served is Central United Methodist in Kansas City.
near the university.
and we had a group of folks that started coming from downtown Kansas city in the northeast end.
African immigrants. And I want to tell you about Mama Riziki. Mama Riziki
um ah got married to bill and bello right before her father who is a methodist pastor in the congo.
sent them into refugee camps. The Civil War, it was incredibly dangerous. And so,
Riziki's father sent her away.
and uh and the whole family away but he stayed behind.
To maintain solidarity with the congregation and protect his people.
Yeah.
Rezeki, her six children were all born in refugee camps.
And, um,
She found out at some point that
A group came in, shot up her father's church and killed him in his church.
That's a Methodist martyr whose daughter and family are a part of a new congregation in Kansas City.
uh we there's a lot of african immigrants uh with stories like that and when they start talking about living in the refugee camps they become incredibly quiet.
Quiet because they just
But what they are is incredibly focused on the power of the word.
Amen.
Do you stand up for the word at this service?
Or not?
well i'm you know i just asked go ahead and stand up you know sometimes we do sometimes we don't.
let me share there are two passages this morning that i want to share with you the first is from the prophet isaiah and talking about the the witnesses of the the martyrs.
Do not fear.
says the Lord
For I am with you.
Do not be afraid.
For I am your God.
I will strengthen you and I will help you.
And then from
John's Gospel, this is from the message, the first chapter.
Just a few.
Select phrases
The word became flesh and blood.
And moved into the neighborhood.
I love that paraphrase.
And what came into being in him was life, and the life,
was the light of all people.
And to all who received him, who believed in his name, he gave power,
To become children.
Of god.
This is the word of God for the people of God.
Thanks be to God.
Please be seated.
So on the Sunday before Christmas, talking about our fears is, ah,
Maybe kind of a tough place to begin, but people are afraid these days, aren't they?
We're afraid of all manner of violence in all kinds of places. we are.
Terror rimes.
Okay
and yet ah the christian community in china that you are referring to well they're being profiled because they're chinese and in this country there are lots of muslims who are.
who are being profiled in just the opposite way, isn't it?
Curious how where you are, how your faith can put you in danger, or,
Give you a sense of security or not. it's Ah. It's amazing.
There's lots of other fear, though. There's fear of failure.
there's uh
Fear of disease,
There's just...
Fear of economic hardship, whether or not you're going to have enough to.
Goodbye.
And then there's that relational dimension of fear. You know, the fear of being misunderstood, the fear of being rejected.
That somehow you're just not okay. And?
Um,
And then there's the fear of the unknown.
Most of us,
Have trouble admitting our fears.
If I were to,
Walk up to you and say, "So,
What's going on in your life and and what are you afraid of
chances are most of you turn around leave the room
Okay. Especially,
to some dude that you don't know.
You know?
What I'm tempted to do, but I'm not going to, is have you turn and talk to the people in your community of faith.
Turn to the people and the pews around you.
And ask you what makes you uneasy.
When you wake up in the middle of the night,
What is it that keeps you from going back to sleep right away?
What are you worried about?
Are you getting in touch with that for just a second
I'm not going to have you turn and actually talk about it.
if that's one of the healthiest things that we can do.
is to acknowledge our fears because in the Christmas stories,
In the Christmas stories,
The angel,
Keeps showing up.
Talking about fear.
Right?
the angel gabriel talks to zachariah talks to mary talks to joseph talks to the shepherds and how does the speech begin
Fear not.
Do not be afraid.
Although interestingly, it isn't just all these other things that are out there.
that uh Gabriel's talking about
gabriel is also realizing that ah.
When God shows up, when the angel of the Lord shows up, when the messenger of God shows up,
People tend to go like this.
Especially if the angel is giving an invitation.
To participate in the new thing that God is going to do in your life,
Or in the community.
Amen.
If I said that you get a great, big, wonderful, surprise Christmas gift and it's the new thing that God wants you to do in your life this week,
this world, how happy are you going to be?
I love it when people participate. All right.
yeah just a little uneasy right.
and that's why the angel says, "Be not afraid" because you know even though we are afraid of the new thing that God is doing in our life, the angel says the word "Forgive"
The way to deal with your fear is to pay attention
To what God is actually doing.
Focus on God, not the fear.
And it'll be all right.
Otis moss
the third is a preacher at a ucc church in chicago.
and he one night heard a strange noise in his house. anybody?
ever been awakened by a strange noise in your house and his house was not unlike my house maybe your house his wife punched him
You know, they're in bed.
she goes like this it's your job to go see what the noise is all about okay.
so he followed a biblical prescription.
ah the i rod and i staff they comfort me and so he reached under his bed and ah pulled out a louisville slugger.
okay do you know what a louisville slugger is it's called a baseball bat all right that's his rod and his staff and he began to go downstairs and try and figure out what on earth.
that noise was about. And we've all been there. We know the uneasy
Sensation of moving toward the unknown.
An otis,
Goes downstairs.
And discovers a six-year-old girl,
In his living-room, dancing in the dark.
Wow.
Michaela?
It is 3 a.m. You need to go to bed, girl.
To six-year-old daughter.
Her pigtails are just spinning.
No, daddy, look at me, daddy.
I'm dancing.
And he begins to huff, and he begins to puff, you know, as.
Only fathers want to do at 3 a.m. in the morning.
And, uh,
God spoke to him, and he said, no, no,
Otis.
Pay attention.
Your daughter is dancing
In the dark.
The darkness is not in her. the darkness is around her. but,
She is dancing in the dark.
And then Otis says that
It's our job as Christians,
It's our job as Christians to help one another,
Find the courage to face our fears.
And to learn how
To dance in the dark.
Amen.
When we're able to trust in that light that is shining within us, we're able to dance in the dark. we're able to live faithfully. we're able to live joyfully, even
Even in the midst of loss, some of you, some of you, this, there's going to be an empty seat at the table or around the tree this Christmas.
And you can still find joy.
You can find ways to live faithfully, even joyfully, in the face of disease or conflict and uncertainty. Jesus gave,
Came to help us.
Learn how to trust the light
of God.
Shining in.
That darkness.
Um,
the last few years i've gotten into the grandfather business it's kind of cool.
our three-year-old granddaughter somebody asked her what does she want for christmas she's just beginning to get the notion that certain things happen along the way of gifts and i was shocked
was kind of shocked. You know, she lives in the middle of the city, and she said, I want a pony.
Maybe all of us go through a pony phase, you know, at some point. that's what we want for Christmas. My, my favorite story along that line was the.
the little girl who said that she wanted a horse not a pony she wanted a horse for Christmas and so Christmas morning came and there was this beautiful
Beautiful wooden rocking horse that her parents had gotten her, and it was there by the tree, and she rushes downstairs by the tree and looks at this gorgeous wooden rock.
wooden rocking horse, and she just burst into tears.
And they ask her, "What's the matter?"
She said.
I wanted a horse made out of horse.
You see, a core belief of the Christian faith,
Is that the word?
Became flesh and blood.
Human.
Moved into the neighborhood that
God became fully alive. that God became absolutely real in a human life with a human face.
And as we become,
Disciples and friends of Jesus, as the love of Christ becomes alive and real within each of us.
We are able to find the courage to face the fear.
And the faith,
To dance in the dark.
What I love to do more than anything else is talk to people about their faith journey. And ah,
Years ago, more than a year ago.
A woman came to me to begin talking about her
Her faith, she heard that I was somebody that she could talk to.
And as we, ah,
visited, she said that she really has a hard time relating to Jesus. And without going into a lot of details, it was pretty clear that there had been some very troubling
troubling, painful
Heartbreaking experiences with men that made it hard for her to accept.
Uh,
God,
As a man.
In
Jesus.
You know.
Now,
Been doing this for a long time. I have to discover there are a lot of women that have a hard time relating to.
to Jesus because so many men have hurt them.
all right that's just part of the reality so so there are a lot of different ways that we can talk about god i'll be glad to visit with you about journey i'm not going to hassle you about jesus and so
And so we talked, and she kept talking, and she kept bringing Jesus up. And finally I said, You know I don't have a need.
to talk to you about Jesus but you keep bringing him up so I think that may be what you really want to talk about
So we talked some about Jesus. And then as she began to trust me a little bit more, she, she extended her arm,
And
She showed me.
The wounds.
On a wrist
Where she had been burning herself.
With cigarettes.
And the scars
Where she had been cutting herself.
She was wounded.
Deep in her soul.
And it was kind of like she was daring me to say something to her about Jesus and these wounds on her wrists.
And i said Jesus is never going to force
Himself.
On you.
This woman was surrounded by professional help.
Fortunately, she wasn't just talking to me.
she had therapists, she had doctors, she had groups, she had all kinds of people that were giving her everything they possibly knew how to give her. but i was there to talk to her.
Talk to her about her soul. And said, Jesus just wants to very gently talk.
Find a way to love you and accept you and to reach out.
to you.
We prayed and she left and
Few weeks later, she calls me. she'd had a vision.
Now that kind of freaked her out too.
I don't know how many of you have had a lot of visions, but...
If you haven't had a lot that
it's it's unsettling kind of that fear of god stuff.
But this wasn't a fearful vision. she had a sense of Christ,
Being very close to her.
Right next to her.
Not overwhelming her, not overpowering her, but just...
Right next to her,
and very gently Christ reached out.
And touched the wounds.
On her wrist.
And it gave her a sense of peace, it gave her a sense of calm, it gave her a sense of assurance that.
She could be Ok.
She would either come and see me every month or six weeks, or she'd call or email me.
Spin,
Well over a year now.
Since she's hurt herself.
With help from lots of people.
And what's really kind of fun is that this person who really didn't want to talk about Jesus but couldn't help but talk about Jesus,
Very slowly, gently,
Aye.
She's becoming.
Friends.
with Jesus.
And beginning to trust.
That that love is alive and real,
And can make all the difference.
In her life.
And in the lives.
of others.
There's a phrase.
In one of the Gospels.
Where?
Mary, says to Gabriel,
And you know, it's,
Somebody with a voice like mine wants to to read this passage, and in this way.
Here am I, the servant of the Lord. let it be with me according to your word. You know, I mean, it's a. It's a big, wild, audacious.
Affirmation of faith.
Here am I.
The servant of the Lord,
May it be with me,
According to your word.
I mean Gabriel just said God wants you to
be mother to
Took a son.
Sure.
Yeah
And then there's this passage in the gospel
That just
Freaks me out.
Then the angel departed from her.
Say what?
You aren't going to stay and finish up?
The angel leaves?
Really?
And yet that's exactly what the angel isn't hanging around these folks all the time. the angel's got other things going on.
Okay.
And so imagine the loneliness,
of Mary.
In that moment, and then the angel departed.
Most of us that have been parents,
Remember what it's like?
to bring a child home from the hospital. Two of my kids are adopted. They're from Korea and we actually got them from their airport. My oldest son was being
Being interviewed for preschool and one of the questions was.
uh what's uh an airport and he said that's where you go to get babies because he had just gone to get.
it just got to get his little sister.
But do you remember what it was like to go home?
And that child began.
To cry or started doing something else?
And that sense of, oh,
Mg.
This is just up to us now.
Ora.
To me.
But Mary wasn't alone.
God had been working.
With Zechariah and Elizabeth.
To provide some support and encouragement.
Joseph did not.
"Dismiss Mary, but embrace Mary."
and her child.
There was extended family in Bethlehem.
That provided a place for them to stay.
Shepherds offered both worship and protection. Shepherds were tough guys.
All right
They could handle it.
Simeon and Anna.
were in the temple.
Ready to affirm this child as the Messiah when they came for the circumcision eight days later, the Magi.
Made this long journey and offered gifts and guidance.
and as they were political refugees in Egypt, there was a Jewish community in Egypt that offered support and care until it was safe for them to go home.
home.
Do you see how Mary and Joseph and Jesus were not alone?
God provided,
For this baby Messiah.
The risks were real.
The risks were terribly real.
But the spirit,
Gathered,
A covenant community to celebrate that light,
And to nurture.
The love of god in Jesus Christ
How many of you have seen the movie?
that everybody's talking about.
Anybody seen it yet?
Okay, we've got one hand back here
you've seen it.
All right. Okay. Don't give away any secrets. Okay.
Because I'm not going to try and give away either. In the movie, do we know what movie I'm talking about?
Star Wars.
Okay. Oh, yeah. All right.
Okay.
You you really want to see it i mean you should you just went into a
Position of prayer. Okay, her, her hands are like this. Okay, Oh God, let me see this movie. Okay, that's cool. Yeah, it's a.
So in in the movie,
It is clear that they were talking about
The folks from the first film, the cast of characters from the first film.
All right
But the people in this generation,
In the movie.
Were wondering out loud if those people were real,
And if the stories were true.
You hear that?
Now, I'm a preacher, and...
There isn't anything that goes through here.
that I don't filter through this story and
How could I use it in a sermon? All right.
Part of it.
But there was one character who had been present.
There's this character who has been present and he said, I never would have believed it.
But the people were real.
I was there. I knew them.
And the story is true.
And he's talking about the force. This isn't.
The shock.
And the force is real.
And I'm thinking about this story.
And I'm thinking about this God.
Because today Jesus Christ
Calls us together as a community of faith to bear witness to the good news that the light shines in the darkness and the darkness cannot overcome it.
christ calls us to help one another to find courage to face our fears.
And to learn how to dance in the dark.
And Christ calls us to make room.
For the new thing that that God wants to do in your life and within the life of this congregation.
Within this community.
Amen.
And Christ calls us to help that love
Come alive to make it real.
In the lives
of the people around us and the people that we meet. Christ calls us
Each of us,
To become the kind of community,
that welcomed the baby Jesus, the Messiah, into the world.
That's what's going on.
Now.
Here with you.
The story is true.
It's all real.
And in the name of that God.
Let the church say amen.